Ladies and Gentlemen,
well, Gentlemen certainly.
This is no place for a lady.
[laughter]
It gives me great pleasure,
and no small amount of relief,
to declare this, the first ever flushing public
lavatory, open.
[applause]
[whistling]
You might want to leave it five minutes.
Oh, oh my goodness
[other sounds of disgust]
A year previously, in 1851, temporary toilets
were exhibited at the Great Exhibition in
London's Hyde Park and visitors were charged
a penny to use them
and that is thought to be the origin of the
phrase "to spend a penny"
And this is the origin of the Nobel Peace
Prize
>> Alfred: hmph, interesting that that is not what is
supposed to happen...
>> Sophie: Darling I don't want to worry you or anything,
but I think you might be dead!.
>> Alfred: hmph, I don't think so darling.
>> Sophie: Well this newspaper seems to think you are
and it's always been very reliable in the
past.
Look Dr. Alfred Nobel, the Swedish chemist
and inventor of dynamite
died yesterday in the French resort of Cannes.
>> Alfred: Let me see that.
Good grief, it does say I'm dead.
Look what they're calling me here,
the merchant of death, it says here Dr. Alfred
Nobel became rich by finding ways to kill
more people even faster than ever before.
Honestly, by reading this you'd think that
just because I invented dynamite I am personally
responsible for the death of thousands of
people.
I mean honestly.
Have you ever heard such nonsense?
I said, have you ever heard such rubbish?
Sophie, if you have something to say...
>> Sophie: Well, you did invent what is at this point
in time the most powerful explosive on earth
and it has gone on to kill thousands and thousands
of people.
>> Alfred: What's your point?
All I'm saying is that when people hear the
word Nobel people they are always going to
think of dynamite.
>> Alfred: I knew I should have called it Nobel's safety
powder.
I mean do you really think that when I actually
do go this is how I'll be remembered?
>> Sophie: Oh, sweet heart, of course it is, my fairy-cheeked
little death merchant.
>> Alfred: Well not if I can help it.
I shall reinvent my own image.
I shall use my massive fortune to establish
a special prize.
One that rewards positive human endeavors
in the pursuit of peace.
So when I do die, I won't just be linked to
explosives.
And I, Alfred Nobel
will call this special peace prize, prize-o-mite
>> Sophie: Darling, why don't you call it the Nobel Peace
Prize?
[laughter]
>> Alfred: I love you darling, but you have absolutely
no idea when it comes to marketing.
Tea!
>> Sophie: Certainly...